=head1 NAME

log-user-session - create a log of a (ssh) session

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<log-user-session> [ I<command> ]

Intended to be used via ssh, either as forced command in sshd_config:

C<ForceCommand log-user-session>

or in ~/.ssh/autorized_keys

C<command="log-user-session" ssh-rsa AAAAB3Nz...>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<log-user-session> is a program to store the log of a shell session (e.g via ssh) e.g. for auditing
purposes. Unlike session logging by B<script> the logs of B<log-user-session> can be made temper proof
if the log directory and the configuration file are not accessible by the user. The B<log-user-session>
process itselfs runs as root (setuid) so it cannot be killed by the user.

For interactive sessions only the output is logged. The input is echoed by the shell, except for
passwords (which usually should not be logged anyway). For remote commands the command itself, the
input and the output are stored. It can be configured to store only the remote command as the
data transfered (e.g. by C<scp> or C<rsync>) can be large and is usually not as interesting as the remote
command as such.

The B<log-user-session> program will executed any provided arguments as commands on the shell of the user.
If no command is provided, then the command in the environment variable C<SSH_ORIGINAL_COMMAND> is executed.
This variable is set by C<sshd> when a forced command is started. If this is not set, then an interactive shell
is started.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The configuration file is B</etc/log-user-session.conf>. The format of the configuration entries is
C<key = value>. Comments are lines that start with #.

=head2 LogFile

C<LogFile = /var/log/user-session/%h-%u-%y%m%d-%H%M%S-%c-%p.log>

The path of the log file can be specified with several variable format options (% + letter). Non-exisiting directories are
created on first use and can only be accessed by root.

Following format options are valid:

=over

=item B<%u> (user)

will be replaced by user name

=item B<%h> (hostname)

will be replaced by the name of host

=item B<%c> (client)

will be replaced by the name of host

=item B<%p> (process id)

will be replaced by the pid of the current instance of B<log-user-session>

=item B<%y> (year)

will be replaced by the current year (4 digits)

=item B<%m> (month)

will be replaced by the current month (2 digits)

=item B<%d> (day)

will be replaced by the current day of month (2 digits)

=item B<%H> (hour)

will be replaced by the current hour (2 digits, 24 hours format)

=item B<%M> (minute)

will be replaced by the current minute (2 digits)

=item B<%S> (second)

will be replaced by the current second (2 digits)


=item B<%s> (unix timestamp)

will be replaced by the number of seconds since 01.01.1970 00:00:00 UTC

=item B<%%> (literal %)

will be replaced by C<%>

=back

=head2 LogRemoteCommandData

C<LogRemoteCommandData = 1>

Log also the input and output of remote commands.


=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item *

Konrad Bucheli, Open Systems AG

=back

B<website: L<https://github.com/open-ch/log-user-session>>


=head1 SEE ALSO

C<sshd(8)>, C<script(1)>
